								
	Service Description Template (Catalogue & Portfolio)							
								
Service Attribute	Definition	Type	Example Value	Recommendation	Visibility	Required for EIC		
Basic Service Information								
Service ID	Global unique and persistent identifier of the service. 	List of controled values (SPs)	01.03	Work in progress. First part denotes the SP. Second part the unique identifier of the service within the SP. Any ideas?	Other	Mandatory		
Service URL	Link to entry page of information about the service usually hosted and maintained by the service provider. 	URL	"http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute
http://cloud-compute.egi.eu"	"a) create a unique URL for each service
b) create and provide the shortest possible alias "	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Provider Name	Organisation that manages and delivers the service and with whom the customer signs the SLA.	Free text	e.g. GEANT, PRACE, EGI, EUDAT, OpenAIRE, etc.		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Name	Service brief and descriptive name assigned by the service provider. 	Free text (max 80)	B2DROP	Should be descriptive from a customer point of view and should be quite simple, such that someone non-technical is able to understand what the service is about. This field will be used in the search function to prioritise results.	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Tagline	Service catchline or slogan for marketing and advertising purposes.	Free text (max 100)	Store, share and access your files and their metadata on a global scale	No more than one sentence.	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Description	High-level description in fairly non-technical terms of what the service does, functionality it provides and resources it enables access to. 	Free text (max 1000)	B2SHARE is a user-friendly, reliable and trustworthy service that allows to store and share worldwide small-scale research data, results and metadata from diverse contexts and guarantees their long-term persistence.	Description in one paragraph without bullets or rich HTML. This field is used in the search function to prioritise results.	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Options	A high-level description of the various options or forms in which the service can be instantiated.	Free text (max 1000)	"""Standard or enhanced"", ""Bronze, silver and gold"", ""10, 20, 30"", ""Foundation Level, Advanced Level, Expert Level"""	Non-exaustive description in one paragraph without bullets or rich HTML. 	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Target Users	Type of users/customers allowed to commission/benefit from the service.	Free text --> might change	Research Organisations, Industry, SMEs, Researchers, Scientists, Funders, Policy Makers, Service Providers, Data Providers, etc.		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
User Value	Description of the benefit delivered to a customer/user by the service. 	Free text (max 1000)	For the communities who need to guard against data loss, B2SAFE is a customer facing service that allow data replication and safe storage between geographically distributed centres in the EUDAT CDI.	Benefits are usually related to alleviating pains (e.g., eliminate undesired outcomes, obstacles or risks) or producing gains (e.g. increased performance, social gains, positive emotions or cost saving).	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
User Base	List of customers, communities, users, etc using the service.	Free text (max 1000)	900+ data providers in Europe with different compatibility levels. Adoption in Latin America (LaReferencia), Mexico and Japan.		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Symbol	Link to the logo/visual identity of the service 	URL	http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/Symbol.jpg	Provide the shortest possible alias 	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Multimedia	Link to multimedia material of the service (screenshots or videos)	URL	http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/Multimedia/	Provide the shortest possible alias 	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Classification Information								
Service Version	Informs about the service version that is in force.	Free text (max 10)	3.1		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Last Update	The date of the latest update of the service.	Date (dd/mm/yyyy)			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Change Log	A log of the service features added in the last and previous versions.	Free text (max 1000)			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Valid for	The date up to which the service description is valid	Date (dd/mm/yyyy)			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Life Cycle Status	Used to tag the service to the full service cycle: e.g., discovery, planned, alpha (prototype available for closed set of users), beta (service being developed while available for testing publicly), production	List of values	"For the eInfracentral catalogue, allowed values are: alpha, beta and production. 
Service providers may use this field for other internal service management purposes."		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service TRL	Used to tag the service to the Technology Readiness Level	List of values	For the eInfracentral catalogue, allowed values are: 7, 8, 9.	See definition at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_readiness_level#European_Commission_definition	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Category	A named group of services that offer access to the same type of resource that is of interest to a customer/user.	List of values	Networking, Compute, Storage, Data(base), Software, Security, Analytics, Operations, Training, Consulting		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Subcategory	Type/Subcategory of service within a category	List of values	 Direct Connect, Virtual Network, Load Balancer, Application Gateway, VPN Gateway, Content Delivery Network, Traffic Manager, API Gateway, Virtual Machines, Container Management, Batch, Serverless Applications Repository, Load Balancing, Blob, File, Queue, Disk, Archive, Backup, Synchronised, Replicated, Recovery, Mining, Management, Transfer, Registration, Persistent Identifiers, Linking, Publishing, Discovery, Platform, Application, Tools, Component, Authentication and Authorisation, Attacks protection, Business Analytics, Web Analytics, Learning Analytics, Predictive Analytics, Machine Learning, Accounting, Helpdesk, Monitoring, Analysis, Configuration, Online, Face-to-face, Platform		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Place	Regions/Countries Availability	Multi value			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Language	Languages of the User interface	Structure under definition			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Tags	Field to facilitate searching based on keywords	Multi value		This field will be used in the search function to prioritise results.	Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Required Services	Other services that are required with this service.	Service IDs	List of Service IDs		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Related Services	Other services that are commonly used with this service.	Service IDs	List of Service IDs		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Support Information								
Service Order	URL to request the service from the service provider	URL			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Helpdesk	URL with contact person or helpdesk to a helpdesk to ask more information from the service provider about this service. 	URL	"http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/Helpdesk
http://helpdesk.egi.eu"		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service User Manual	URL to user manual and documentation	URL	http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/UserManual		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Training Information	URL to training information on the service	URL	"http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/Training
http://training.egi.eu"		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Feedback	URL to page where customers can provide feedback on the service	URL	"http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/Feedback
http://servicefeedback.egi.eu"		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Contractual Information								
Service Price	Payment models that apply, the cost and any related information.	Free text (max 500)-Include URL	e.g. free, pay­as­you­go, subscription, membership to corporate customers , indirect funding (EC, State funding), etc.		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Level Agreement	URL to the information about the levels of performance that a service provider is expected to achieve. 	Free text (max 500)-Include URL	http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/SLA		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Mandatory		
Service Terms Of Use	Link describing the rules, service conditions and usage policy which one must agree to abide by in order to use the service. 	Free text (max 500)-Include URL	http://www.egi.eu/cloud-compute/TermsOfUse		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Funding	Sources of funding for the development and/or operation of the service.	Free text (max 1000)	Funder registry		Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Level Targets and Performance Information								
Service Level Target 1 Name	Indicator related to Service Availability	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Level Target 1 Value	Measurement related to Service Availability	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Level Target 2 Name	Indicator related to Service Reliability	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Level Target 2 Value	Measurement related to Service Reliability	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Level Target 3 Name	Indicator related to Service Durability	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Level Target 3 Value	Measurement related to Service Durability	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Performance Indicator Name	Other Service Level Target or Performance Infdicator 	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Performance Indicator  Value	Measurement of Other Indicator	Free text			Visible to Customers (Catalogue/Portfolio)	Optional		
Service Operations Information								
Service Owner					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Operations Documentation					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Monitoring					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Accounting					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Business continuity plan					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Disaster recovery plan					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Decommissioning Procedure					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Metrics and Statistics					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Level 1 Support					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Level 1 Support Hours					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Level 2 Support					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Level 2 Support Hours					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Level 3 Support					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Level 3 Support Hours					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Maintenance Window					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Availability Hours					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Advanced Service Information								
Use cases and requirements					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Features (active)					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Features (upcoming)					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service components					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Dependencies 					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Service Business Case information								
Unique Selling Point					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Competitors					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Cost to build 					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Cost to run					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Pricing					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Risks					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Other Service Provider Service Information								
Other info needed for the service provider					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Other info needed for the service provider					Internal to Service Provider (Portfolio)			
Other Stakeholder Service Information								
Other info needed by a stakeholder								
Other info needed by a stakeholder								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
								
